Helen, I'm Dr. Jonathan Barker, pastor here at Amazing Grace Baptist Church in Mount area, North Carolina.
I would like to personally thank you for taking out time today to tune in to our preaching podcast.
We hope that this message will be a great encouragement to your heart today.
If I will say it in the Hebrews chapter 1 and verse number 1, God had sun-dried times and in diverse manners, speaking time passed under the fathers by the prophets.
hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds, who, being in the brightness of his glory and the expressed image of his person and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he hath made himself or when he had by himself
purged our sin set down on the right hand of the majesty on high."
Note again what he said, when he had by himself purged our sin set down on the right hand of the majesty
on high.
Now, I want to talk to you about this thought for just a little while this morning.
God has acted.
How will you respond?
Here's what I want to do this morning.
I want to use this verse as a launch pad and really deal with the Trinity in salvation.
That is God acting to us.
And how are we going to respond to that father?
You know, the need of the service today.
I pray that that divine will would be done.
Save that center closest to hell and we'll give you glory in Jesus name.
Amen.
You can be seated.
I want to look into this verse again and
Talk to you just a little while about God has acted.
How will you respond?
When we come to this verse of Scripture in the Bible, we see the Lord himself became our substitute.
We see the Lord himself bore our sin and the Lord himself bled.
for our salvation.
Now, I made this statement just a second ago.
I want to look at the Trinity's part in the work of salvation.
Now, what is the Trinity today?
Well, the Trinity is the biblical truth that there is one God who is eternally existed in three distinct persons.
Now, can I say that again?
There is one God.
Okay, let me say it again.
There's one God in the Trinity and He totally exists in three distinct persons.
There's the Father, the Son.
and the Holy Spirit, these three are co-eternal in nature, or co-equal in nature, co-eternal in existence, and co-essential in being, sharing the same divine essence, yet each person is distinct in their role and their relationship.
Note this, the Father is God, the Son is God, and the Holy Spirit is God.
The Father is God?
The Son is God, and the Holy Spirit is God.
You sow a preacher that doesn't make no sense to my mind.
Well, it doesn't have to make sense to our mind.
It's the Bible today.
And there is God the Father.
There is God the Son, and there is God the Holy Ghost.
The Father is not the Son.
The Son is not the Spirit.
The Spirit is not the Father, yet they are all three full
And eternally God, whenever you study the Word of God today, I want to look at their parts in salvation today.
Number one, note this with me today.
The sovereign's part in salvation.
Or God the Father.
What was His part when it comes to salvation?
Well, I really believe that God the Father, the sovereign's part in salvation can be summed up in one verse today.
You say, what is that verse?
John chapter number three and verse number 16.
For God, that's the Father, soul of the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.
That was God the Father and the sovereign's part.
in salvation.
Can I just say it this way?
It can all be summed up in one word.
There's one verse, but there's one word, love.
What was the father's part in the house?
Man, it was love today.
It was love.
I began studying job three, 16 again.
This week and here's what I found.
I think you could say of this love, but it's a so loved.
It's a so loved.
Now there's a lot of writing and a lot of preaching and a lot of different sayings for this word.
So, so I scratched every bit of that and put it to the side and went straight and studied it myself.
This word so is very interesting.
Here's what I found out about it.
If you'll take, I would say a concordance, but most of you have no clue what that he is.
But if you'll punch in blue letter Bible, a lot of y'all know what that he is.
If you'll punch in the blue letter Bible and go to John chapter three verse 16 and break it down on the inner liner and look at the word so, it's the Hebrew word hoto.
And here is what that word means.
In this way, 20 means so in this verse means in this way.
So what is he saying?
John 3 16 is saying this.
It does not emphasize the degree of God's love, but the demonstration of God's love.
It's the demonstration.
It means the in this way.
So is saying God love the world like this or God love the world this way.
Well, what was this way?
I'd tell you what this way was.
He loved the world in this way.
That he gave his only begotten son to die for us.
Oh, yes, it's a so love.
The Bible does not tell us how much God loves the world, but it does show us how much God loves the world.
God loves or God's love is not measured by motion, but God's love is measured on a hill far away at a cross.
Therefore, so points us not to the size of God's love, but to the sacrifice of God's love.
Oh, yeah, the sovereigns part.
Well, it was a so loved.
It was a scent love for God so loved the world that he gave.
It was a scent love.
Listen to what the Bible said in John 8.
Jesus said it in the
If God were your father, you would love me, for I proceeded forth and came from God, neither came out of myself, but he sent me.
Romans 8 says this, he that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all.
How shall we not win, or how shall he not, with him also freely give us all things?
Look what the Bible said in John, our first John chapter number four.
And this was manifested the love of God toward just because that God sent his only begotten son into the world that he might live through him.
Here in his love, not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son what to be the propitiation for our sin.
Yes, it's a soul of, but it's a scent love today.
The sovereigns part, well, what about this?
I now stay with me just a minute.
It's a single doubt love.
You say, what do you mean it's singled out?
Well, what does it say?
Who's so ever?
For God's love the world that He gave His only God and Son that what?
Who's so ever believed in Him?
Who did Christ single out?
Who did God single out?
Here's who He singled out.
Everybody!
If you're breathing today, guess why?
God loves you.
You so preacher, you don't know my life.
You say preacher, you don't know where I be and God loves you.
You don't know the life that I'm living now or the life that I had in the past.
I may not and I could care less to know about it.
But what I do know is there is a God in heaven that loves you today.
Oh yes, but what about this?
It's a secure love.
I'm headed somewhere.
What did he say?
He said this, should not perish, but have everlasting life.
Thank God, the love of God is secure today.
I'm glad it don't matter what I've done.
He loves me.
It don't matter what I may do.
There's absolutely nothing that can make God not love me.
the sovereign's part in salvation."
Well, it was love.
Number two, I want you to see the son's part in salvation.
Not only the sovereign, but I want you to see the son's part.
In Jesus, we see that he came.
He lived the perfect life that we could not live.
He met all the demands of the law of God.
He died, took our punishment for sin and paid our sin dead in full.
He was buried three days later.
He rose victorious over death.
Hell in the grave, man.
There's the son's part in salvation.
Well, watch this.
His body was a clean substitute.
Can I just say this to you?
There wasn't nobody else.
that could do this.
There wasn't nobody, you know, the song is sung sometimes.
They searched all over heaven for somebody that, no, there wasn't no search made in heaven for somebody to come to this earth.
There was not one that was able to be the substitute and it had to be God the Son.
Let me see it.
His body was a clean substitute.
Listen what the Bible said in John chapter number one.
The next day, John seeeth Jesus coming under him and sayeth behold the Lamb of God, which takeeth away the sin of the world.
You know what he was saying?
Here's what he was saying.
Right there is our substitute.
You see all throughout the Old Testament, they had made sacrifice after sacrifice after sacrifice.
And here's what John is saying.
He's saying,
Hey, boys, somebody's just showed up on the scene and it is the darling Lamb of God.
He said, behold, why the Lamb of God?
He wasn't just any Lamb.
He wasn't just any Son.
He wasn't just any man.
Oh, but He was God incarnated in the man.
He was Jesus.
He said right there, behold, the Lamb of God which takeeth away.
The sin of the world, you know what he was saying?
He was saying this, that's our substitute.
That one right there.
Well, amen.
He's the one that can take our sin away.
That one right there.
He's the one that can wash us while there's snow.
It's by him we can go to heaven.
All he was a clean substitute.
What did the Bible say in Hebrews chapter number seven?
and needeth not daily as those high priest, offer up sacrifice first for his own sin.
And then for the peoples, for this he did want when he offered up himself.
So the son's part, his body was a clean substitute, but watch this, his blood was a cleansing sacrifice.
The blood of the Lord Jesus Christ.
Thank God for the blood of Christ today.
The Bible said, without the shedding of blood,
Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sin.
Well, the thing about this, Hebrews 9 said this, is it all right if I just give you some Bible this morning, but Christ being come a high priest of good things to come.
by greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands.
That is to say, not of this building, need to buy the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood.
He entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us, for if the blood of bulls and of goats, and of the ashes of heifers and sprinkling, the unclean sanctified to the purifying of the flesh.
How much more shall the blood
of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered Himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead words to serve a living God.
Here's what that verse is saying.
It's saying that the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ was a clean sacrifice and God the Father accepted the blood from God the Son.
Oh yes, the Son's part.
Well, the Savior's part.
There's the sovereigns part inside, but there's the son's part.
Number three, watch this.
There's the spirit's part.
There's the Holy Spirit's part.
This is very important.
Can I just say this?
This is as important as all the others.
And can I just say this?
The Holy Spirit's not an yet.
It's not just something that flow, it's God.
The Holy Spirit is God.
And the Holy Ghost has as much of a part in salvation as anybody else does in salvation.
Note something with me.
The Spirit's part in salvation.
Here it is.
He convicts the center.
I mean, it's had the way you're convicted of your sin.
It's through the work of the Holy Ghost.
You may tell you who sat down on the seat beside of me.
July the 20th, 1994, hadn't showed me I was lost.
It was the Holy Ghost.
You may tell you who showed you you was lost.
You may tell you who tells you now that you're saved, that you've done wrong.
It's the Holy Ghost.
I see the, the Spirit's part.
And so he, he convicts the center.
John 16 said this.
Nevertheless, I tell you the truth is expedient for,
view that I go away for if I go not away, the comforter, which is the Holy Spirit when you study that out, the cometer will not come into you, but if I depart, I will send him unto you.
And when he is come, he will reprove the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment, of sin because they believe not on me.
of righteousness because I go to my father and you see me no more of judgment because the prince of this world is a judge.
The verse is saying simply, it is saying this, the Holy Ghost is the one that convicts us today, the Holy Spirit.
So he does this.
He convicts the center, but you know what the Holy Ghost does?
He converts the center.
It's the Holy Ghost.
That converts you say it's God.
Well, he is God.
Some of y'all looking at me like a calf, looking at a new gate.
He is God.
Well, I thought you said he was holy ghost.
He is.
Well, I thought you said he was God.
They're the same.
Watch this.
He converts the center.
Listen to all the Bible said in John chapter number three, Jesus answered and said to him, barely, barely, I say you're under thee.
Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.
Nicodemuseth in him.
How can a man be born when he is old?
Can he enter the second time to his mother's womb and be born?
Jesus answered fairly, fairly.
I say, you know, the except a man be born of the water and of the spirit.
He cannot enter into the kingdom of God.
Thou which is one of the flesh is flesh and thou which is born of what?
The spirit.
If you got your Bible open to John chapter three, verse three through six, you'll notice every time it says spirit right there at the end, when it is referring to God and not your spirit, there's a different punctuation.
What did he say?
There which is born of the flesh is flesh and that which is born of a capital is, who's that referring to?
That's referring to God, the Holy Ghost.
And here's what he said.
Number one, you've got to be born by the water without going into great details.
I think there's a practical application of a natural birth right there.
No words, you've got to be born the first time.
Understand that we could take water right there and we could go to the Word of God.
So then faith cometh by hearing God and hearing by the Word of God, you've got to hear the Word of God.
But a practical application, I truly believe is a natural birth right there.
You have to be born the first time.
You ain't going to be born again if you've never been born the first time.
I mean, y'all may act educated, but we ain't, we didn't listen to it.
That's just simple things.
And here's what he says.
After that, it's the spirit of God that we are born by.
He, it's the spirit of God that converted me.
It's the spirit of God.
Watch this.
It's the spirit of God that turned my heart into Christ.
It's the Spirit of God that made the Word of God, which is the Son of God, because you didn't begin with Word and Word is with God, and Word was God, or John, chapter 1, verse 14, and the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us.
but he was the Spirit of God that turned my heart to the Word of God and through the Word of God, the Son of God, I saw the sovereign and I saw his love and what he'd done for me.
Oh yes, it's the Spirit of God that converts us now.
I'm not going to give you all this because I'll preach two hours.
Once he converts you
there's a lot more that he does in your life.
Can I say this?
He in dwells in you.
According to Romans chapter number eight, he in dwells in you.
What about this?
He seals you.
Let me read some of this to you.
Ephesians chapter number one, and whom he also, and whom he also trusted after that you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and whom also after the chief believed you were sealed.
with the Holy Spirit of promise, which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchase possession under the praise of his glory.
Ephesians chapter four verse number 30 says, engraved not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby you are sealed until the day of redemption.
What did he say in second Corinthians chapter number one, who hath also sealed us and given the earnest of the spirit in our hearts?
Now watch this, the Holy Ghost sealed me after I got sick, sealed me.
You know what that means?
That He put something in me and then sealed it off.
Can I just give you a very practical down to earth application?
Whenever you grow green beans and you go out and pick them and then you strangle them and break them,
Y'all know what I'm, some of y'all kids didn't know that's the way it happened.
You just thought that beans come out that way.
They don't.
You got to sprint, strangle them and break them.
Anybody ever went to a bean stringing and breaking party?
I hate them.
I'm thankful for it afterwards, but I hate them.
And then you put them in that canner, you put them in that pressure cooker and pray your house don't blow up.
You're all with me right there.
And then you get them out and you set them on the kitchen table on a towel and you go to bed and during the night you hear, and your wife goes, whoo, hallelujah.
And I go, go back to sleep.
Let me tell you something about that green bean.
This is deep.
Y'all ready?
Long way that green bean is ever going to get out of that sealed jar is if the one that put it in it breaks the seal and gets it out.
It ain't getting out on its own.
That green bean, you're a holiday man because y'all can relate to what I'm talking to you about.
That green bean ain't getting out of that jar.
You want me to tell you what happened the day I got saved.
Here's exactly what happened day I got saved.
God put me in a jar and sealed me up with a Holy Ghost and there ain't no way I'm getting out of it until He comes back and takes His purchase possession home to be with Him.
The Holy Ghost seals us.
Can I just say it this way?
Once saved, always saved.
I didn't lose and I'm not going to lose it.
It's not mine to lose.
I didn't give it to me.
I didn't seal me.
That's all it.
Hallelujah.
If you'll get ahold of that, it'll help you.
Oh, yes.
Watch this.
The Holy Spirit and dwells in us.
He seals us.
According to 1 John 2, he teaches us, according to Ephesians 2, he gives us access to the Father for through him.
We both have access by one spirit.
unto what?
The Father, that's a capital S. That's God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Ghost.
You may change the way that I talk to God the Father.
I talk to God the Father through the Holy Ghost.
It's the Holy Ghost that gives you.
Amen.
He affirms that we're the children of God and Romans chapter number eight.
He ever seeds for us.
What about this?
Romans chapter number eight, verse number 26, likewise.
The Spirit, that's a capital S.
also help with our infirmities for we know not what we should pray for as we all know what that's saying.
Here's exactly what that.
Let me just break this verse down real simple for you.
It's what that's saying.
They sometimes you don't know how to pray.
They sometimes you don't know what to say.
You said, preacher, I've never been there.
I hate to be the bearer of bad news.
You'll probably get there one day.
Men troubles come our way, heartaches come our, this is after salvation.
He's converted us now.
Heartaches come our way, troubles come our way.
We don't know what to say, how to say when to say where to say.
And all we can do is find ourself piled upon an altar at a church, or riding down the road, or knelt somewhere else in our home.
And all we can do is utter out the words of God.
And you know what the Holy Ghost does?
He runs tirade and he takes it back to the sovereign and said, here's what he's
trying to say, he intercedes for us.
Oh, yes.
Likewise, the Spirit also helped with our infirmities, for we know not what we should pray is for us, we ought.
But the Spirit itself, makeeth intercessions for us with groanings which cannot be uttered, and he that searcheth the hearts, knoweth what is in the mind of the Spirit, because he makeeth intercession for the saints.
Watch this according to the will of God.
When he intercedes on your behalf, he's going to intercede knowing the will of God.
He just don't pray anything.
You say, well, how does he know the will of God?
Cause he's God.
It's a perfect prayer.
Go ahead.
Amen.
Going back to the father, where we see the sovereigns part in salvation, the son's part.
and the spirits part.
You thought he was done because he said, I was going to preach on the Trinity in salvation.
But see, there's one more that we've got to look at for just a minute and closing and you say, what's that?
It's the centers part.
You see, God done all of this for us.
God has acted.
But how are you going to respond to it?
The sovereign loves you.
The son gave itself for you.
The Spirit convicts you in inner-stage for you, but how are you going to react to all that?
The sinner's part in salvation.
Can I just say this to you?
It's real simple.
The sinner's part is He to hear the Scripture.
To hear the Scripture.
There's nothing, listen to what I'm fixing to say, no more important than the Scriptures of God's Word.
nothing.
That book right there, it's not just some words printed out on paper.
That's not what that is today.
Man, that's God.
That is God on the printed page.
In the beginning was the Word.
The Word was with God.
The Word was God.
That's God.
So the center's part is this.
Well, here are the Scripture.
What did the Bible say in 1 Peter?
being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the Word of God, which liveth by the forever.
What did he say in Romans 10?
So then faith cometh by hearing and hearing what?
By the Word of God, what is saying, John 12, he that rejected me and receiveth not my words, hath won that judgeth him, the word that I have spoken the same shall judge him in the last days.
So the center's part is just to hear the scriptures.
That's the reason where you come and start playing softly.
That's the reason every song should be scriptural.
Can I say that?
Every song should be scriptural.
I just want to thank you Lord.
Man, do we even have time to begin meddling in the book of Psalms, how many verses goes along with that song?
every song that I can still pray through.
Boy, that's scripture.
Every song is to be scripture.
Every lesson that is taught is to be scriptural.
Understand that there is times that we make practical applications, but it must always point back to scripture in context, scripture,
scripture, scripture.
Um, lastly's back in school y'all pray for.
And I was watching some of her class the other day.
I thought it might help me brother Lloyd.
And, and I had two or three things come up.
I had to go do and you say, well, I ain't sure what they was, but I had to go do them anyway.
I was watching some of some of you, I'll get that in a little while.
I was watching some of it.
and the professor or teacher or doctor or whatever he was talking, said this, said anytime you're talking to someone and they're dealing with issues in their life and problems in their life, you must point them back to Scripture.
As a Christian, as a pastor, as a pastor's wife, it's got to be derived off of the Scripture.
The Scripture, why?
because it's the Word of God that speaks to the heart of man for the Holy Ghost to convict him.
It's the Scripture.
How do I know that Jesus loved me because I read it?
How do I know that God sent His Son because I read it?
How do I know that he'll save me because of the Scripture?
How do I know that he rose again one-third in victorious, glorious morning over death, telling the great, because I read it.
How do I know that 40 days later he's sending back into the heavens because I read it?
How do I know that he's coming back?
Because I read it.
How do I know what's wrong and what's right?
The Scriptures.
The center's part is to hear the Scriptures.
The center's part is this to heed to the spirit.
When you hear of the scriptures, it'll do one of two things to you.
Let me just say it this way.
It'll change it.
I'll just give you one thing.
It'll change it either for good or for bad.
You'll either accept it or you'll run from it.
That's what's going to happen.
It's the center's part to heed the spirit because through the scriptures,
The Holy Ghost speaks to our heart, church.
It's through His Word.
John 663 said this, it is the Spirit that quickeneth the flesh prophet of nothing, the words that are speaking to you.
They are Spirit and they are life.
John 644 said this.
No man coming to me except the father, which had sent me, draw him and I will raise him up the last day.
John 665 said this and he said, therefore I said unto you, that no man can come unto me except it were giving unto him of my father.
What does the spirit do?
The spirit causes us to heed the scriptures.
What is the center's part?
It's to hear the scriptures.
It's to heed to the spirit.
but I'll give you this in closing.
The center's part is this to humbly call on the Savior.
That's what it is.
What did he say?
He said, when he had by himself purged our sins, not sin, but that's all of them.
And just say that again, that's all of them.
Set down on the right hand of the majesty on high.
Here's our part in closing.
We call out to him.
Getting saved is as easy as it sounds.
It's a pretty shorty mane by that.
It's that we call on the savior and ask him to forgive us of our sins and to come into our heart and save us.
It's truly, it's truly, are you hearing the preacher?
that simple.
So preach, I thought I had to do this and I had to do that.
I don't ask you a question.
Are you saved or lost?
You answer that in your mind.
You know, I'm glad I can answer it.
I'm saved.
And bad if I'd answer it, I was lost.
I mean, that you don't talk about a service.
I preach myself under conviction.
God save, praise God.
I know I'm saved.
And I ask you the question, are you saved or lost?
If you died in that 30 seconds heaven or hell, y'all make a decision, what is it?
And if you can't say I'm saved, the sovereign loved you so much that he sent his son to die for your sins.
And the son loved you so much that when he went away, he sent the spirit back to you and left us with the scriptures.
And when you read the scriptures, the spirit convicts you and says that that's right and shows you that the son paid the price for what the scripture said, had to be paid for sin.
And all of it was at the hand of the sovereign.
The question is, is this what are you going to do with it?
What are you going to do with it?
It's heaven or hell, choice is yours.
If you're lost, I've got real good news.
All you've got to do is confess your sins before Christ, and ask Him to forgive you of your sins and to come into your heart and save you.
And you know what He said?
He said He would do it.
He said this, come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will in no wise cast you out.
God, the Savior, will save you if you'll ask.